In 2019, two years after their previous adventures in Jumanji, Spencer Gilpin, Anthony "Fridge" Johnson, Martha Kaply, and Bethany Walker plan to meet up over Christmas break to discuss their first year out of school. The night before, Spencer, feeling despondent that his life isn't as glamorous as his friends', gets out Jumanji, where he had secretly rebuilt the console after its destruction in the previous film. When he is late to the meet-up, his friends visit his mother and are greeted by Spencer's grandfather, Eddie, and Eddie's estranged friend and former business partner, Milo Walker, who came for a visit. Fridge, Martha, and Bethany realize he has gone into the game and they follow Spencer. Eddie and Milo are also sucked into the game inadvertently while Bethany is left behind, forcing her to go to the other Jumanji player, Alex Vreeke, for help.
 
Inside the game, Martha becomes 
 
an avatar named Ruby Roundhouse (whom she had been previously). Fridge becomes Professor Sheldon Oberon (who had been Bethany previously), while Eddie and Milo become Dr. Smolder Bravestone and Franklin "Mouse" Finbar (who had been Spencer and Fridge respectively). After explaining Jumanji's rules to Eddie and Milo, they encounter non-player character Nigel Billingsley, the game's guide, who reveals that Jumanji is suffering from a massive drought. To leave the game, they must end the drought by recovering a magical necklace known as the Falcon Heart, stolen by warlord and Bravestone's rival, Jurgen the Brutal. Each character gets a limited number of lives, as they did previously, with the number of lives each has left marked on the character's arm. Transported to a desert to pursue Jurgen, and narrowly escaping a herd of ostriches, the team encounters Spencer who has a new avatar, a skilled female thief called Ming Fleetfoot. Apologizing for their predicament, Spencer joins them.
 
While attempting to escape the desert, they face new challenges and problems, along with collecting a Jumanji Berry and discovering a pool of glowing green water that allows them to switch avatars. However, the group struggles to adjust to the avatar changes: Fridge has trouble figuring out how Oberon is even relevant to the game, Spencer's meekness makes him unable to fully utilize Ming's skills, Milo's tendency to 'take the scenic route' when talking makes him unable to relay vital information quickly, and Eddie's hotheaded stubbornness costs the group several lives. Meanwhile, Eddie bickers with Milo, revealing their friendship ended when Milo sold their diner behind Eddie's back, forcing him into retirement. Traveling to a forest beyond the desert, the group crosses a series of rope bridges, while being attacked by a group of mandrills.
 
Successfully crossing the bridges, they are reunited with Alex, as his avatar Jefferson "Seaplane" McDonough, and Bethany, who is now Cyclone, a black stallion who can only be understood by Finbar. As they rest from their battle with the mandrills, Eddie learns Milo is terminally ill and wants to make amends before he dies, which leads them to reconcile.
 
Working together, the group traverses to Mt. Zhatmire and finds a river with the same glowing green water Fridge and Martha saw earlier, allowing Spencer, Bethany, and Fridge to return to their original avatars (Bravestone, Oberon, and Finbar respectively) again while Eddie and Milo end up as Ming and Cyclone. Shortly after, Eddie and Milo are captured by Jurgen's soldiers. Spencer, Martha, Fridge, Bethany, and Alex split up to infiltrate the fortress, rescue their teammates and get the Falcon Heart. While scaling the ice wall, Martha asks Spencer why he left his old life and her, and he says her success made him insecure. She consoles him, reminding him that friends are needed most when we feel scared and insecure.
 
Having successfully rescued Ming and Cyclone, Fridge and Bethany proceed to try fooling Jurgen into giving them the Falcon Heart necklace by claiming to be a pair of brothers he was supposed to meet with. However, they are soon revealed to be lying. The resulting fight allows Jurgen to escape onto his airship followed closely by Spencer. Realizing Jurgen is vulnerable to the Jumanji Berry they collected earlier, Spencer incapacitates Jurgen and sends him falling to his death, allowing him to steal the necklace. Ming and Cyclone (who is revealed to be a Pegasus) fly towards the sky, letting the sunlight touch the necklace, therefore completing the game.
 
Returning the Falcon Heart to Nigel, Milo decides to stay behind and live out his last days protecting the land. Upon returning to the real world, Spencer teaches his grandfather about video games. Having gotten over his resentment, Eddie convinces Nora, the owner of his old diner, to hire him as a manager.
 
In a mid-credits scene, a furnace repair man Spencer's mom hired finally shows up, but notices the video game console. Shortly after, several animals released by the game stampede outside Nora's, catching the group's attention.